# CI Tests for Container Images Based on Red Hat Software Collections

This directory contains job configuration files, managed through [Jenkins Job
Builder](http://ci.openstack.org/jenkins-job-builder/), to run tests for each
Container Image based on Red Hat Software Collections.

Current list of tested images can be found in [Github team
repositories](https://github.com/orgs/sclorg/teams/container-images/repositories)
or in [configuration file](./configuration).

Now tests are run in two Jenkins instances:
* [CentOS CI](https://ci.centos.org/view/SCLo-images/)

  - jobs to test Pull Requests (test CentOS based variants of images)

  - JJB configuration file `jenkins_jobs.ini`

* Non-public Jenkins server (to know more ask hhorak@redhat.com)
  - jobs to test Pull Requests (test RHEL based variants of images)

  - jobs to build CentOS based variants of images on every new commit and
  push them to [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/centos/)

  - JJB configuration file `jenkins_jobs_rhscl.ini`

## Pre-requisites

To use scripts in this repository to update jobs in Jenkins you need:

* `virtualenv` command, supplied through the `python-virtualenv` RPM

JJB will be installed into a virtual environment under this directory, so is
safe to run on any system.

## Updating all jobs

The provided script can update the Jenkins jobs over the API by running JJB.

    ./run.sh update

To access Jenkins using JJB you have to provide configuration file. So if
files `jenkins_jobs.ini` and `jenkins_jobs_rhscl.ini` don't exist they are
created from a template. Then add the username/password for access to Jenkins, edit
URL in `jenkins_jobs_rhscl.ini` and then re-run the command.

Note: [SCLo-sig](https://wiki.centos.org/SpecialInterestGroup/SCLo)
credentials for [ci.centos.org](ci.centos.org) can be found in the home
directory on slave01.ci.centos.org.

## Using run.sh

`run.sh` is simple wrapper for `jenkins-jobs` command. It supports `update`,
`test` and `delete` commands. And according specified name prefix of jobs it
selects right configuration file and adds `-r $THISDIR/yaml` to specify path
for commands.

To test the configuration of one job, run:

    ./run.sh test rhscl-images-ruby-rh
    echo $?

Once happy with the result, to test your config change on a single job, run:

    ./run.sh update rhscl-images-ruby-rh

During updating jobs you can select jobs by globbing. For example to update
jobs configured for CentOS CI run

    ./run.sh update SCLo-*

or to update the RHEL related jobs in different jenkins instance run

    ./run.sh update rhscl-*

## Generating jobs

Project files for each Software Collection Docker image in folder
`./yaml/jobs/collections/` can be generated by running `./run.sh`. If project
file for some line in [configuration
file](https://github.com/sclorg/rhscl-container-ci/blob/master/configuration)
does not exist, it is generated by substituting values to
[template](https://github.com/sclorg/rhscl-container-ci/blob/master/yaml/jobs/collections/template).
Each line of this file has format: "name namespace github_org github_project
triggering_project".

By default each project has these three jenkins jobs generated:

* *SCLo-container-{name}-{namespace}*: job which tests content of pull
requests in CentOS7. It requires to run on [CentOS CI
infrastructure](https://ci.centos.org)).

* *rhscl-images-{name}-{namespace}*: job which tests content of pull requests
in RHEL7. This job is *not* configured to use CentOS CI infrastructure and it
requires to run on machine with access to RHEL7 Docker image.

* *rhscl-images-{name}-{namespace}-build*: job which after new commit to
repository builds CentoOS7 based image and pushes it to Docker Hub. This job
is *not* configured to use CentOS CI infrastructure.

**Projects do not have to use all three default jobs. Some files in
`./yaml/jobs/collections/` can be manually created/updated. So be careful when
regenerating all project files.**

For regenerating all project files (if you really know what you do; see a comment above), run:
```
rm yaml/jobs/collections/*yaml
./run test
```

## How to add tests for a new image

When a new image is created and we want to add testing of it. Push/move image repository into `https://github.com/sclorg` organization. To enable CI:

1. Create jenkins job - the easiest way is to add a new entry to `./configuration` 
file and run `./run.sh` (missing project files are generated):

    `./run.sh update`

    Then a PR should include `./configuration` and the newly created file
    `./yaml/jobs/collections/<newspec>`.

2. In order to allow testing of the pull-requests, right permissions have be set. Add the **'centos-ci'** user as a collaborator to the repo and add the repository to **'Container images'** github team - both with **write** access.

3. To be able to trigger CentOS CI jobs add webhook for github repository:

    Payload URL : `https://ci.centos.org/ghprbhook/`

    Choose `'Let me select individual events.'` and mark notifications for
    `'Issue comment'` and `'Pull request'`.

4. If the repository is supposed to be maintaned (write/admin permissions) only by people from RedHat, add the repository to **'RedHat maintained'** github team. There is a jenkins job which check permissions for all repositories listed there.

## Creating necessary credentials in Jenkins

**Jenkins jobs need permissions to access github pull-requests for two reasons:**

A) Update the status of the pull-request

B) Creating a gist file to share the job log, that is otherwise available behind a firewall only; and updating generated branch

**This is how the credentials are created for each case:**

A) For the pull-request status update, let the Jenkins create a token itself, with all necessary permissions:

1. create github `user`:`password` credentials in *Jenkins -> Credentials -> System -> Jenkins -> Global credentials* with a type "Username with password"
2. Go to the *Manage Jenkins -> Configure System* and find "GitHub Pull Request Builder" section
3. Create a new entry with `https://api.github.com` as GitHub Server API URL, and picking the previously created `user`:`password` credentials
4. Click Create API Token and let the Jenkins to create Github token
5. This token is later available in *Jenkins -> Credentials -> System -> api.github.com*
6. Pick this token in the Job GitHub API credentials

B) For Gist upload and generated branch update, create another token manually with `gist` and `repo:status` permissions:
1. Generate a token on github.com (*Settings -> Developer settings -> Personal access tokens*)
2. Create a "Secret text" type Jenkins credential token in *Jenkins -> Credentials -> System -> Global credentials*
3. Export this credential for jobs in Build *Environment -> Use secret text(s) or file(s)* and choose an environment variable that this token will be accessed by
4. Use the credential in the build steps via an environment

C) For committing to the 'generated' branch, create another token manually with `repo:status`, `repo_deployment`, and `public_repo` permissions:
Steps are same as in (B).
